Managing subgraphs (#741)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/managing/transferring-subgraph-ownership.mdx

Reviewer: Should we change this page's name/URL now that it also talks about deprecating?

Author: Yes! We should

---
title: Transfer and Deprecate a Subgraph
---

> ## Transferring

Author: I was attempting to be less wordy. The page's title indicates it's referring to a subgraph, but I suppose explicitly stating it, is probably a good call.

> ## Transferring

Reviewer: The reason I suggested this is that I didn't like the first sentence of the following paragraph ("Easily transfer your subgraph ownership" – is that even a complete sentence? :P) but removing would mean removing the only instance of "subgraph ownership", so I thought to move it to the title. Still less words overall. :P

> Easily transfer your subgraph ownership. Subgraphs published to the decentralized network have an NFT minted to the address that published the subgraph. The NFT is based on a standard ERC721, which facilitates transfers between accounts on The Graph Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subgraphs published to the decentralized network have an NFT minted to the address that published the subgraph. The NFT is based on a standard ERC721, which facilitates transfers between accounts on The Graph Network.
```

**Please note the following:**

- Whoever owns the NFT controls the subgraph.
- If the owner decides to sell or transfer the NFT, they will no longer be able to edit or update that subgraph on the network.

> - You can easily move control of a subgraph to a multi-sig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can easily move control of a subgraph to a multi-sig.
```

https://rainbow.me/your-wallet-addres
```

### Step-by-Step

To transfer ownership of a subgraph, do the following:

1.  Use the UI built into Subgraph Studio: ![Subgraph Ownership Transfer](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-1.png)

> 2.  Choose the address that you would like to transfer the subgraph to: ![Subgraph Ownership Trasfer](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-2.png)

Reviewer: To prevent the items' text from being stuck to the images:

```mdx
1.  Use the UI built into Subgraph Studio:

    ![Subgraph Ownership Transfer](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-1.png)

2.  Choose the address that you would like to transfer the subgraph to:

    ![Subgraph Ownership Trasfer](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-2.png)
```

### Before

![CleanShot 2024-08-14 at 11 06 05@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2960b888-610a-43e8-aef9-3b5cb3a523c6)

### After

![CleanShot 2024-08-14 at 11 05 40@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/01c3bec7-d420-4b6c-8a1b-588f97d4f311)

> Optional: You can also use the built-in UI of NFT marketplaces like OpenSea:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can also use the built-in UI of NFT marketplaces like OpenSea:
```
(just to prevent the double `:`)

> ![Subgraph Ownership Trasfer from NFT marketplace](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-nft-marketplace.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Subgraph Ownership Transfer from NFT marketplace](/img/subgraph-ownership-transfer-nft-marketplace.png)
```

## Deprecating

Although you cannot delete a subgraph, you can deprecate it on Graph Explorer.

### Step-by-Step

To deprecate your subgraph, do the following:

1.  Visit the contract address for Arbitrum One subgraphs [here](https://arbiscan.io/address/0xec9A7fb6CbC2E41926127929c2dcE6e9c5D33Bec#writeProxyContract).
2.  Call `deprecateSubgraph` with your `SubgraphID` as your argument.

> 3.  Now, your subgraph will not appear in searches on Graph Explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Your subgraph will no longer appear in searches on Graph Explorer.
```

**Please note the following:**

- The owner's wallet should call the `deprecateSubgraph` function.
- Curators will not be able to signal on the subgraph anymore.
- Curators that already signaled on the subgraph can withdraw their signal at an average share price.
- Deprecated subgraphs will show an error message.

> > If you interacted with the deprecated subgraph, you can find it in your user profile under the "Subgraphs," "Indexing,” or "Curating" tab, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you interacted with the deprecated subgraph, you can find it in your user profile under the "Subgraphs", "Indexing", or "Curating" tab, respectively.
```
